
---
title: Hollow Knight, an indie masterpiece
date: 2017-05-20
tags: ["Test"]
categories: ["Video Games"]

draft: false
author: "Jean-Loup Adde"
---

Hollow knight is a game built by team cherry thanks to backers in
kickstarter. It has been released in march 2017 and received good scores
in metacritic (86 by the press). Recommended by one of my friends, I
decided to have a look as it costs around 15 euros or 10 pounds.

![](/post_preview/20170520_143221_header.jpg)


## Story

At the beginning, nothing will explain you the quest you have and what
you're doing there. Which is really interesting as you will learn more
and more about why you there more you explore and play the game.

What you just know is that a terrible thing happened in the kingdom and
all the bugs started to get crazy. You decide to explore the world to
find the reason and to fix it.

## Universe / Atmosphere

The universe is just fantastic. You feel totally into it as the graphism
are cartoon style and really well made. You are in a 'bug' universe
where a terrible incident happened. You can feel it as their's no much
color in the kingdom which is a bit depressing at the first sight. For
example:


![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/8RctvoOLWhJ7hNCIwMucavvZyWaS1dQ6CyIXO0FhxMZYIKxYJgnR2o9wCZBGX_x-D2h_ODFYhny1NEFb5ecW1xaYHWWhXBpKJD5PYV3vaBWNQUAGtsDNhcMhZojyIe9Oxz06j7DmnrkrgdSuWca3Gy_yur71U-aZUpNqj6Vzo19mTyF9xGVG7C0ZLd6tEZbZLMFgMftyzzY7bHk89jiOICUJ0U7NktejWEDmV-Ov8Mn7BMdY5eHvtHcKkyYBq-cvou2jECENfYgOUqCZMHpFiZjnHU0ngvDTPP25ALy1UIS2QsVkBD6deInS84ksPakOHDxw7GxKfVgriPYAAISFFHZRmXxmB5QLLmklb5fbc9xmmuvjr078Ve08k7_rBuHUIsw-hCjtkSWikpye1t_uuc2XDrKbl81vcZrxn3olYh4yqREK63s9f69Twgzemm-WMZcHf4WmX-U8Dn8fXw-FQECkli6WsHDk1S0AYKIweInmjhv7qiMqbR5_duwt8gdc_K2-QF5JSz3eN0X21oqp8DtKbJw1klpI2s5OB97u9EkaXECELnY3xmJxGo3gDngLKkKrX3Czz7poX1FffaAgwTrUuZxydEkgwgrXEgxs_TClHMt8mq_bAlLZEgrQQoZPDRz4jU-daaXZhYN1droxLmJsqIBCEHI3SOk2Mp5bkPc=w1360-h768-no)

But more you will explore and more region and atmosphere you will
discover such as
greenpath.

![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/rtlsDlTi45Knv-c9kj0SSyOW-xXcgTq83J8bRsiwL3bcTY4dI_ex72ETVdiHcczSbnA5spTnKV-SGNSkLL72OvlQJOklI08hwFokF7lpzEwdsysYYR4IlVJsKiANLDvcaCsnZS0IrHhoID0b1MvCd8uyikEnfyWcG0cYSuj3QGhuLUYLyQZrKkyDMuA4GHx_RXWXLKo4eb0o2TS0O1vS3joT_IXdlYzXb44tWBVK3o_4TEDS0BjGxzJmrL6LqLUE0MNgv19A06eO3dq9m5pfk9d4DRzixRZB5wwd3-yc2-r-mvVmwB_Knm0Nq0IRVCP0Ximjkjx3gyB616rEqV2qUoXvvnUOZkUCpFv-3vsYeiVFp0NvPg83nlVCpncs93L5zg-qSmQJ3VnlLmtfQmufemTs1_eWH-DVbSkbKzEdsN3UtMeXwa-2AzP-nmR_1NzJbD6fcKNaJapHasu1i0b2vn_n6QjpeLRf_bGl_bqaY9GPItDoOGxFjLjNvfgRVIYDOJAawo9YVoi044SDxVjD36VyafjTLgNHtJWP5aeQD4epEJdEjPg-0VSIa9FG3t0fpbVl9VFKmuX9ZZdJFOhYjyQnt4-lAE0whgTHpqnpHFXubGRkoscZY5skxinGtUd013SQ_e6nu7-SGjsYNndibAXNiosMa7t_G5L235EtQ10=w1683-h950-no)

But what's amazing as well in the game is the link between the
environment and the music. You will have epic music during epic battles,
resting music during youre resting time in hot sources. The atmosphere
is just well really well made and you get so easily into it.

## Gameplay

The whole game is separated between two phases, exploration and action.

### Exploration

Every new region is undiscovered and you will need to explore every
little piece of it to discover new skills, life or even
friendships.

![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/SbE00jQvXwfIhOoVJZ_JXI3aPqScTBeCJUky1K51DehIsPB_ABpnpx5_JhHe6PXupfG4l9TnPL8FkQ3uCfNZVfmEEvwCAUBw9iX2mY8DTucTjtiBVnonkuswrQ0u7Xo-XOsb8sfqt2rFmBDvFzYSJesYmeXAPnzMEF8WTdLWd4WVM-LtWbpe1wsSEiPkV1K4wiepDZmu3TwkwdpYhuiV0eeGgOpJ4o-8-oojHYzQdMM91l25FOHblHf_mf2LKls7em9ddhVdd7aC1c_9o20eWVNe3SnxIewGSplpvIfPwGEaP39JAs0hFzDsUp5oOEK1GSVApcFw4VW2qq8N8EmQ37d8NC82jWKUeA2WXAcUL-118UL8M0AM8C7D86CXFAxnN1aJIvkrqWU97Qljwn0ZT47rodMo8JqmkbPqXMPUmmBHfZ4nzBXl5OhZQ71MnoH23Cd-6y69ZVEOoFvBrKO9FsAYzc7M9uVAF1PU10eEplNjk7__0-BiMP6v5lt7PtXmBlAumkCWNjhPIUejivgp4ds7Qik5g4CVRthmz2jRgtLWGS5V2qOrhhFnl6xnNHv8A_G4VnfZ4sJprNrfrYfYv5Gk-2N2KPEPq0CeMvwF8rGgeGmIazPYEqCBNoR2csq7QxV7KAlRapvyAPMYiA5_w0kCDXE0bk7_ylDXyR_CNoQ=w1360-h768-no)

So the exploration is really important (and quite addictive I have to
admit) as you would get more powerful if you're investing time into it.
As well the exploration will reward you every time, as tones of items
are placed in the world. So don't be scared to go in unknown
places.

![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/LQntUEb0DY3s7rigTc9NhC3NziLlGgay0Rt5vTxzVKLaANEgSkK4xex4SnjnpgJl07Yn72N2jtpn4t6RmZWJ22Cjx9cujXQzVdU7VzqVpz3Fl62UqSpeHCR5FQU01cuKn-LaG--a1lKYn2B_e75uJ1JST-VLxNqmDN-mg_c9pIBpASpQ0GHe1AoCujwaDpv3SYBMPUjCatOmOPLk7uVITT-Pn19zhs2izfcX1NkBrjPhwatWr6yjrw175KA5vRmxtXGZLd7h75Ix8hy236W85Q9-rae5RBXXMWRDCteCRi3CnjVmNI6lerSQN400Ai5Evop3FUCok7r_gQZIfsvM8XLUdkEMs_D2WJGjVQJAJSrZebYgj8TQcHMzCCq-j6YBY8fF0L943K39GJNa-8htIqzGQZrtUnS7V3H4JPjQm49mlBjw1Gf1-P-r-C1942RDhcc-x4rSzLWVNn01jQS_XptBc6LpAVk5l6PPqafmoY-LQG32o0UUrwvxQ0x54X_ezH5qQEgPsHnyIjwYn8P8evhA1yltsBNXV0RM4zD3B2fLOTbSo6nzquSTzsNkGjE_ETm4pC7yg98TNe9MvuyatCt5YCUCQH3CWAXkmGqGS_1nDSTDxhXT8SpOFG44WWLaSWLcyfeuPaiMXIHmFj6V0MliCYPLRWz1SoOxl710sUE=w1360-h768-no)

As there's no help and you decide where you want to explore you might
explore the world differently as one of your friend would have done it,
where sometimes you might struggle to defeat a boss as you did not get a
specific power or skill.

### Action

The gameplay is between metroid, castlevania and rogue legacy. It is
just amazingly based on your skill and how you master the different
skills of the Vessel.

Everytime you got touched, the screen gets darker for a second and
everything get slowers, making you realizing you're getting closer to
death, but might confuse you as well as you can loose the 'rythm' during
a boss fight.

So speed and dodge are the master key to survive in the bug land. Lat
point, the game is hard, not incridibly hard but you will have to
pratice some of the bosses strategies to faint them.

### Video bonus

[I wanted to show you directly how the game is tough and awesome to play
to\!](https://youtu.be/XSCchVtW4AE?t=21s)

In the video you can see at the beginning some charm configuration as
they are the only thing you can personalize in function of your skill or
the situation, (I was a bit struggling to be honest). After that you can
enjoy some tries against the boss... (Yeap that's not an easy game)

## Conclusion

To be clear, this is a must buy. The universe is amazing and really deep
giving you a good reason to explore as you want to know more and more of
the game background. if a note needs to be given, i would give it 100
grubs out of 3 mantis lord.

